and the book that I'm rereading right
now is the power of myth dude this book
I am remembering how much it changed my
life like I forget how much big book for
you yes I forget how much of it yeah it
it is the foundation to impact Theory it
it really is and when I think about
something that I don't talk enough about
um was the tattoo that I got which for
me I'm not a believer in tattoos
personally I never wanted to get a
tattoo um I was super scared of needles
like really really like phobic as a kid
of needles and I'm reading this book
about to get married and uh he starts
talking about how part of what he thinks
is really deeply problematic about
modern society's a lack of rituals and
the lack of rituals comes from um not
having any relevant mythology and that
that's you know a cause of a lot of
problems and one of them he was saying
is you know divorce that there's no
really powerful ritual that tells you
your different human being the day
before you get married and the day after
and uh I really thought about that and I
really wanted to marry once and marry
for life and you know that was going to
be it and but really really
understanding that it's not a flaw of
character um to not stay married that
it's it's really a fla strategy and that
may have just been uh a poor choice
going in you didn't marry somebody that
fits you well that you didn't grow
together over time which is a highly
coordinated effort that to me is um like
orchestrating the most complicated trick
play in the NFL I mean it takes such a
high degree of orchestration
communication practice rehearsal over
and over and over um to really get to
that point and or it could be you know
not understanding the mythology and
ritual and all of that that that goes
into changing who you are as a human
being from one day to the next so um I I
asked you know I loved the notion of a
ritualistic scarification and so wanted
to do that but wanted to also face one
of my biggest fears uh in the name of my
love for my wife that was needles and I
know maybe that's stupid but that was
the thing that like really straight
freaked me out and so the idea of being
scarred by a needle permanently uh was
just it was you know the early days of
my belief move towards what scares you
and because a tattoo scared me so much
um that just felt like the perfect thing
um and and rereading the book The Power
of myth just reminded me like I'm I'm
regoing through that psychological
transformation and and remembering like
how much of that was born of that book
which I'm just so so grateful for for
and it it really is one of those things
that gave me that notion of open
yourself to being changed like that book
really changed me it made me take
different actions and um it is a big
part of what I credit uh my marriage to
my wife is so stressed out right now
every time I like I'm so full of this
love for her and I look over and she is
like freaking the out like trying
to figure something technical out right
now so uh it's a it's a pretty funny J
the
position yeah okay aent Smith I got love
for you welcome to the table welcome to
be here all right let's see um next
question comes from Chris wait Jonathan
verder sorry if I said that wrong um how
do you create community in a corporation
and Inspire Millen Millennials to work
hard o so obviously Simon s touched so
powerfully on the millennial question um
as it pertains to to work environment
that is unique to them and while I'm on
this ritual kick mythology kick I'll
I'll bring the two together and I think
that there is no exit from childhood to
adulthood anymore and that's a big thing
that I think we've all struggled with
and and certainly Millennials and and I
do want to just tip my hat for a second
that every generation complains about
the generation following them like I'm
very very aware of that um and I don't
think that Millennials are any exception
to that and I think Millennials are a
beautiful powerful aming generation just
like um every generation before them uh
but they do struggle as we all did with
some identifiable problems that are
unique to that generation and and I
think talking about those things that
are unique to Millennials is pretty
fascinating and one of the things in the
power myth that he notes is society is
moving and evolving too fast for
mythology to keep up because mythology
requires a certain amount of mystery um
to to be ritualized um and I think that
that that's a really powerful Insight it
makes me ask the question since I
believe that impact the's job is to be a
modern-day mythmaker and to tell people
how to interpret that that mythology and
we have to do it through the lens of
knowing that it's fake right we have to
do it through the lens of knowing Star
Wars is not real that it's just a Space
Opera um you know that superheroes
aren't real but they tell these Parables
and tales uh that should be instructions
for us how to live so when I was
thinking about culture Creation in a
corporation I'm thinking of all those
things I'm thinking of uh that people
are coming to this company that I want
them to be there for some selfish
reasons it's just I know that about
human nature is you know you can count
on everybody to be selfish um and that
it's a really really awesome feeling
when you know that you're working for
yourself and you're pushing really hard
you may be a part of a bigger ecosystem
you may be getting paid by somebody else
but you're driving towards something you
want in your own life and so I wanted to
create a structure where that was talked
about and it was open and I actually
believe that the biggest traumas in our
life whether you were sexually abused or
you know whatever the case may be it's
not being able to talk about it that's
that's one of the most difficult things
and it's forcing that struggle up the
can we show that to camera this is the
this this is that thing that I fear that
keeps me awake at night um that we have
not figured out this problem
this doesn't it make you want to punch
yourself in the minute of figuring out
so it makes talking like sound
technician in the face so here's the
thing you got to hold yourself to
results and so um I'll speak only to
myself the following diet tribe is about
myself then we're going to come back to
building a c culture and a corporation
um dear self you continue to not make
this a priority you continue to let this
be a problem and then you have the
audacity and the laziness to about
it when it bites you in the ass during a
live feed stop doing it this problem is
very predictable so at the end of this
dear self you're going to actually take
the time to prioritize this deal with it
solve the problem and move on it's going
to be the last time I talk about it I
cannot believe I've tolerated this in
myself um and this is me like this is
actually how I talk to myself I'm just
externalizing it right now so if anybody
wants to know how I deal with um letting
myself down this is it like this is so
stupid and I've no one to blame
but myself uh and it just hasn't been
painful enough until right at this
moment now where I'm truly embarrassed
because I've let this drag on for so
long so uh it will be addressed um so
going back to building a corporation um
culture um so wanting to recognize that
people are being selfish wanting to
create this beautiful environment where
we could talk about it so that um you
know if somebody was unhappy that they
didn't have the extra burden of and I
can't say anything or uh a culture of
secrecy which I I really hate and by the
way I don't think that I've um been
entirely successful with that I think
we're small again here at impact Theory
so it's a lot lot easier um but it's
something that I I really struggled with
and thought you know this is I know what
needs to be done but actually building
it into a culture as the company gets
big is really really difficult so I
think a key part of it is and this is
learning from failure um nice 15 shares
thank you guys um and maybe I'll tell
more about the meeting story so you'll
understand why this community is so
important um and the shares help us
build that Community uh so learning from
failure one thing that I saw was when it
was small
it was really easy because people could
see my work ethic and because I make
three demands I need people that work
hard I need people that work smart and I
need people that work long hours to
accomplish what we wanted to accomplish
a quest certainly what we want to
accomplish here like those three things
are just that's how you win that's how
you get in poll position there's there
just isn't another way because if you
know everybody is working um hard and
smart then the only thing left is long
hours and long hours is where everybody
pushes back and you know that's where I
say hey you should only be here for
selfish reasons and that was easy when
people could see how hard I was working
that I was the first one there that I
was the last one to leave that I would
ask actually ask them to vote what's the
worst job um on the line this is when we
were actually making the bars or when I
was making the bars every day um and and
you know we just identified it and then
that would be the one that I would do
and so then people knew that like okay
he's not playing around he's not asking
us to do anything that we wouldn't that
he's not asking us to do something he
wouldn't do for himself and we've seen
him do it every day and on top of that I
didn't show up with a piss poor attitude
right so I was leading by example by
being up by being energetic by being
excited by being excitable by thanking
people like and it was really easy when
we were small and so I had ride or die
when we were small like
for real and I so am sad that I don't
know how to like I'm so proud of how I
was then that I want to talk about it
and I want people to see it and I'm very
sad that that's one moment in my life
that um will never be captured and I was
so different and so had to step outside
of my comfort zone to uh be a leader of
you know you know people that grew up
hard they were tough and you know
gang members and tattoos on
their neck and teardrops painted on or
tattooed under their eye and you know to
be able to thrive in that environment
and give those people hope and get them
excited and believe it and some of them
are are still there and to see how
beautifully it's impacted their life um
that's how you build a culture right you
do it by Leading by example you do it by
acknowledging the truth of the human
condition that people need to be able to
talk about problems they don't punish
people for speaking up don't punish
people for a dissenting opinion and let
them know like what the code of ethics
is let them know that's why we did the
25 bullet points let people know like
what's acceptable here what's not what
are the expectations be hyper clear um
one thing that I was really bad at but I
think is also critical as you scal is
giving people career paths um you know
progress is maybe the most fundamental
building block to human happiness and if
people don't have a sense of progress in
gaining Mastery um they're going to get
very frustrated uh I could literally
teach a master's class on this um I'll
stop stop now not because I'm done but
because we should move on to something
else but what an awesome question I'm
super excited that you're thinking about
that uh if you're in a leadership
position even just asking the question
is going to go a long way um look at
camera when you can that's a very good
tip I actually feel weird about that
it's not just designed to be like this
so thank you um and I will try to do
that more she basically said stop
looking at
Cindy so um this one comes from Facebook
um from Ethan
SMY I struggle with having others walk
all over me I'm a peacemaker and really
don't like offending others so I let
people walk all over me how can I keep
that from happening how can I stand up
for myself yeah so Pete Carroll uh the
head coach of the Seattle Seahawks has
really put into modern terms what I
think mythology was always meant to give
us and and what I think is really part
of the duty of impact Theory and that is
to you have to have a life philosophy so
you have to know what you will put up
with and what you won't put up with um
and and um I I am the same I very much
get massive anxiety uh when it you know
really has to be like dieh hard conflict
and I think that's why I was so proud of
myself during the era when I was on the
line and working with guys that were so
aggressive and so um jockeying for Alpha
status and so I really had to be um on a
much more visceral like sort of Base
human level of of having to assert
myself and play a you know a dominant
role even from just a physicality
perspective holding myself differently
of of taking up more space of letting
people know that I won't back down or
more importantly be back down um but at
the same time you know having the the
deafness of a leader and being able to
listen and knowing when somebody needs
to be heard and never fighting to be
right um even when you have to let
people know that you're strong and that
you're going to be there so here's the
thing you have to have a life philosophy
that life phos needs to include that you
don't let people back you down and if
you know that you're prone to that then
um you may have to uh force yourself to
air on the other side that you may be
you know a little too quick to stand
your ground until you can find balance
and the balance is key and and you're
going to hurt yourself in the opposite
direction but what it'll prove to you is
that you're willing to stand up for
yourself and and I think that a lot of
times the you know you have two types of
aggressive people those are just
aggressive and those who are nervous
aggressive um and and if you're having
to employ aggression out of nervousness
which I actually think is better than
just receding into yourself so while
it's not a good strategy it's a way
better strategy than being a doormat but
if you know like I'm just being nervous
aggressive you need to be working your
ass off to find that balance now one
thing that you can do and I know this is
super weird um but the interview with
faras sahabi he talked about this that
he got into martial arts because um he
so felt um that he in a moment of
passivity he wanted to know that he was
being passive at a choice he wanted to
know know that at any moment that he
could choose to fight if that's where it
needed to go and that gave him such
confidence and stability in himself that
he was never nervous aggressive and I
love that and you see that a lot in guys
that are really well-trained Fighters
they have so much confidence that if
something were to escalate um that they
only escalate like if something's really
at risk because there is no nervous
aggression so um I wish there were
better a better answer than that the
path that I chose was not um as much
physicality the lifting and getting
strong really really helped me because I
knew that I'd be able to hold my own
more um but for me it was having a life
philosophy knowing what I was willing to
put up with what I wasn't and that I
would never allow myself to be a sub
verion of myself so um I just have a
line where I won't be pushed around I
won't be bullied um and you know I've
had people very very powerful people try
to bully me um and I just click into you
know I'm not going to let that
happen happen and once you like I have
such um I've allocated so much mental
real estate to never being bullied that
um that's like the worst thing you could
do with me like if in a negotiation or
something um you try to bully me like
I'll flip and that's when I get
like and I don't lash out I'm not going
to raise my voice but I will become so
aggressive like in a business context
aggressive not like physically crawling
across the table but just like
okay well now what you're trying to do
is bul you so now I'm not going after
what's reasonable anymore I'm going to
try to dominate you um and I'm not even
saying that's a great strategy I'm just
saying that it that's the reaction that
I have to bullying because I've had to
carve out so much mental space to not
let that happen um so that's a another
strategy but it it all comes down to
life philosophy bright lines I won't be
bullied I won't be pushed around um and
you know I'm like you won't hear me say
I won't embarrass myself I'll embarrass
myself I just won't be bullied right so
you just have to decide what's critical
to you and never ever ever and this is
my favorite quote from um uh Winston
Churchill I got it in the end there it
is never ever ever ever back down to
something other than you know Common
Sense and honor whatever the exact quote
but that idea of never giving in never
never never um and I have that right and
don't forget you can start small like
saying no to things is totally your
right like
even to like a candy bar or whatever and
then keep pushing yourself to achieve
and get to that bright line
right all right so our next question
comes from
Pala um on Facebook any tips for those
of us who want to start a career in a
different field I was working in
e-commerce but I want to pursue my
career in team/ project
management I love this question and I
know I need to speak loud better so I'll
self censor um yes I have all kinds of
advice and it goes exactly like this the
only thing that matters is getting so
good they can ignore you that's it I
don't care if you went to school for it
I don't care if you spent 20 years in
another field you can do a 180 at
anytime in your life and all you have to
do is get better than everyone else and
all that is is about practice learning
growing acquiring new skills get
Relentless about that dive in get
yourself in way over your head say yes
to everything and figure it out later I
I literally as I'm I was in this meeting
this morning and uh the guy's like well
would you ever consider this and I was
like yes uh and I'm literally inside I'm
like this is so funny I act everything I
tell people to do everything is exactly
what I've trained myself to do like this
is real the words you hear coming
out of my mouth because it is like my
what I have so trained myself to do and
saying yes all the time and and just
believing in yourself that you will
figure this out like that's
everything so in the meeting I was like
10 years ago I would have panicked right
now because I know I have to say yes
right to get where I'm trying to go I
have to say yes to this but I have
absolutely no idea how to cross the
chasm but I so trust myself to do the
research to figure it out to do the Deep
work to put on headphones to wake up8
hours before anybody else literally
eight hours before anybody else and just
think about this like look at
historical examples read on it interview
people ask like be humble except that I
don't know like drilling into that world
and and knowing that on a long enough
timeline I'm going to win because other
people first of all if they are already
good at it then I know that they've
already succumbed to Dogma so now all
the world that was open to them when
they were a novice has now solidified
into like 10 things and they think
that's it and I'll blow past that
because I'm always going to have the
courage to be naive which is a quote
from somebody who I'm forgetting right
now but don't think that's mine I don't
want to steal that cuz it's so good but
have the courage to be naive and then AJ
hwk no no it's somebody like ack Fuller
what H Buckminster Fuller yes cuz I sent
it to you yesterday my man my man agent
Smith pulling it out of the Matrix
Buckminster Fuller there we right
question from IG awesome uh Tom are you
a cleaner if so when in your career did
you transition from closer to cleaner
so if you if you watch that episode with
Tim Grover he says there's something
Beyond a cleaner I think when I asked
him if he was a cleaner he said no I'm
you know whatever is beyond the cleaner
so I like to think I'm beyond the
cleaner uh but of the three yeah i' I'd
say I'm cleaner when did I transition
nothing's binary it's never um one
minute yes the next minute no um and it
was so funny I was recently we published
a photo um of me I've got my head down
it's like this really cool in fact we're
going to poost it right where it's more
raw and they can see the environment
yeah and um I had my head down at that
moment because I was being asked
something in an interview and I knew
what they wanted they wanted me to like
give some like highly
mythologized answer that was like
truish um but was so packaged in the
story that it would be like emotionally
resonant and my head is down cuz I'm
like how do I give them what they want
and not lie because I'm not willing to
lie and then I picked my head back up
and gave them an answer that was total
and I bet they never use it not
that one though um and I just thought I
would rather give them a answer now
that's real and that the one person
who's really listening to what I'm
saying while it might not be that Jazzy
emotional um answer it's actually true
and if you implement it in your life
then you know it'll work so the truth is
there was no binary moment it was me
relentlessly acquiring skills and
getting better and better and better
every day um so yeah it's no it's no
binary moment you're not a cleaner until
you can say you're a cleaner And so
there's you know like the the sort of
final test of being a cleaner is can you
own it can you say I'm a cleaner
and I'm gonna show up and you know I'm
going to be in the gym at you know in my
case 3:00 a.m. and you know rock it out
rock it out rock it out every day put in
the work grind grind grind yeah that's
it nice um while creating new mythology
will impact Theory take a critical
position against the larger cultural
narratives which feed the epidemic of
the Mind
um unintentionally so that feels a
little bit like a political question and
I'm not a political guy so the way that
I think about it is this there are
things that work and there are things
that don't work and I'll get behind
anything that works uh I judge myself on
results so all I know right now is I
have a theory and that theory almost
certainly will not be true as I see it
now and that I'll adapt that theory as
we go which by the way is why it's
called impact Theory I've talked about
this before and and part of my life
philosophy is you have to repeat things
a lot um and we were going to call it
impact machine and the truth of the
matter was that that made it sound like
we believed that we knew the answer to
have impact and the truth is we have a
theory and we're going to rock that
theory until we have reason to believe
that it isn't true and then we will
switch it up immediately and begin
rocking our next Theory until we believe
that one's no longer true switch it up
keep rocking it and and that'll be the
the deal that'll be how we uh we pull
this off so yeah all the mythology that
we're going to create um all the stories
that we want to tell all the companies
that we want to help bring into the
world um are all going to be things that
work that are real um and you know we're
looking at a couple companies right now
one of them is a medical device and I
talked about this before um they could
be very interesting but only if it's
real and if it's real we'll get behind
it and what it does is stimulates the
vestibular nerve um to have impact on
weight loss and there's a really strong
physiological reason why it might be
working and it has FDA approval which is
fascinating um but I used it so I don't
know I can't tell you that it's real yet
but I'm super intrigued by what they're
doing um it you know was introduced me
introduced to me by vs ramachandran who
is one of the absolute brightest Minds
ever in my opinion in neurology um so
the fact that it's you know even sort of
distantly associated with him means a
lot um but if it's not real we won't do
it if it's real we will and then on the
mythology side yeah I mean we'll be I'm
trying to pull people out of the Matrix
and every story that we're going to tell
is going to be the um you know just the
the hero with a thousand faces so it's
the same story over and over from a
thousand different angles um but it's
all about that moment of Awakening
realizing that you control your own life
and your destiny that everything is in
your control every bad thing that's
happened to you is your fault in a great
way um just meaning that you're in
control um and and we're going to tell
that narrative over and over and over
from a thousand different angles and try
to give people um what they need to
actually implement it in their own life
so if it's real we'll do it cool Yak sh
all right quick giveaway pause so this
is for Facebook and Instagram repost
your favorite Tom quote and tag Tom
billu to be entered to win another copy
of tools of Titans nice all right and
this question comes from
Jimmy um Tom what was the best lesson
you learned from your
father wow the best lesson I learned
from my father goes like this he bought
me a plaque one time and it said find
something something that you would live
for sorry find something you would die
for and live for it and um that was
powerful man like that was one of those
that hit me right away some have to take
time to sink in but that one that one
really that was worth its weight and
gold so M respect to Pops on that one it
certainly wasn't about cars I didn't
learn any lessons about cars but I tried
and tried to teach me a that's okay I
don't know anything anything about cars
either um so this one comes from
Francisco how would you go about finding
your life partner if you didn't already
have one the internet man there's no two
ways about it like the internet like it
is it's a numbers game first of all so
you just have to see a just unbelievable
number of people but okay so that's
useless so now let me give I think where
could really be useful to you what you
have to do is be aggressively yourself
you really have to be aggressively
yourself and that doesn't mean that you
social norms it doesn't mean that you
don't show kindness and open doors and
do things to get people's attention like
don't be a dumbass do what works so of
course you're going to put your best
foot forward of course you're going to
adhere to social norms but when leis and
I first began dating I was so myself I
was so myself like you wouldn't believe
how myself I was uh which is a tale for
another day but I was aggressively
myself and because of that I had just
gotten out of a relationship by the way
where I just felt like the person had
been a little nutty and
um I was at that moment convinced I was
never going to get married so imagine
that meet my wife convinced I will never
get married and so I felt like I had
nothing to lose she was leaving the
country uh she was legally obligated to
leave the country and uh it just seemed
perfect so I thought well I'm trying a
new strategy I'm so in the mode of I
don't give a um I'm going to see if
it works for myself so so you know I
mean she was a beautiful woman and a
human being and deserved the utmost
respect so I I want to make sure people
understand like I was opening doors for
her I was showing her the you know some
chivalry and real kindness but at the
same time I'm not going to you
so I think that's that's such a powerful
strategy because it will it's I believe
in life a big thing you're doing is
throwing a bat symbol up into the sky
not to attract everyone to attract
Batman like you throw the symbol
up into the sky to attract something
specific right so you throw your fle
freak flag up and you see who responds
like who's into it um but yeah just
never and my wife raised her hand she
definitely responded um but at the same
time like don't be a dumbass and I
needed to find that to make that useful
um be courteous be respectful be
interested right like the best way to be
interesting is to be interested in the
other person um and be open man be open
like that person may not be what you
think but on the other side of whatever
weird thing you're trying to use as a
shield to protect yourself from being
rejected May lie like the most
incredible person of all time but you
won't know if you don't go into it
defenseless and here you ready for my
die dve on love ready and I wish that I
could give it super quiet intimate to
the microphone because this this is the
the
business the beauty of love the thing
that makes it so special is knowing
you're going to get hurt and doing it
anyway it's knowing that some percentage
of the people that you put yourself out
there you fly your freak flag it really
is you you're totally yourself they're
going to kick the out of you and
it's going to suck and it's going to
hurt and it's going to uh run the risk
of making you want to clam up and when
you don't when you take the shot to the
teeth and go back for more that's the
beauty that moment right there your very
willingness to to get back in and open
yourself up again is what makes it
amazing that like that's what you should
pride yourself on that's what you should
be impressed with is that you don't let
that scar tissue build up and that's
where people have trouble they get later
in their life they've had a couple
failed relationships they feel really
vulnerable raw they start building armor
around that that scar tissue right to
hide their heart from anything you got
to break that down man like that is what
makes it impressive when you know that
part of the rule of the game is that
it's going to hurt that you're going to
get yourself into a situation that will
suck and still being able to go back in
with arms wide and and loving your
heart awes we have a
winner okay Mike burkart winning
mik burkart people posted what they've
learned from Impact Theory so far like
Bart congratulations I want to hear this
impact Theory taught me to pay more
attention to what is actually happening
in my brain when I'm in different
scenarios it really helps to look at the
neurochemistry behind emotions nice I
like nice that's good that's good and if
you that didn't come in loud and clear
he's learned to pay attention what's
happening in his own mind uh and that
you know really understanding the
neurochemistry helps and it changed my
life for sure I have so many clear
memories of my wife um you know being my
partner as I went through all this and
really learning about myself and cuz I
used to be pretty hotheaded uh and I had
a long fuse but once I got angry then I
would just stay angry for like a long
time and you know little moments like
this in England this is so embarrassing
in England they have two doors this is
back when we were just dating and I'm
not used to that CU in America there's
just one door like you open a door and
you go outside there you open a door and
you go into like a little mud room and
then there's another door to get out of
the house yes um and I didn't know this
but you actually need a key even on the
inside to open the the last door so you
can open the first door without a key
but the second door you can't but when
you pull the first door closed behind
you it locks and now you need a key to
get back in so I literally trapped
myself in the mud room so we gotten in
this huge fight I stormed out I was
going to storm out of the house and I
stormed my way right into the mudro and
I couldn't go anywhere and it was so
stupid that I started laughing and I was
like oh this is so embarrassing but how
can you not laugh at that point so I had
to knock and she had to come let me in
and we both burst out laughing and then
you realize right then it's just brain
chemistry it's just brain chemistry
because as soon as I was laughing I
wasn't mad anymore and none of it seemed
serious just because I was laughing so
that was one of those first clues of huh
this is
controllable
yeah so God bless my long-suffering
wife all right so this next question
comes from Michael Foster do you see
yourself who is by the way like one of
the impact Theory Allstars this guy is
on there all day every day dope comments
Michael you know he's like
everywhere um so do you see yourself as
a scientist of the mind and your
experiments involving mind constructs
and behaviors that test your construct
of what your current reality is I think
it would be really unfair of me to
consider myself a scientist um
scientists do very rigorous studies um I
like to adopt some of the mindset of a
scientist to approach problems uh you
know from the same angle that I don't
know the answer to this and so I have a
hypothesis I want to test it I want to
see I empirical data um looking for
evidence but part of the reason that I'm
not a scientist is all of that rigor is
way too slow and I want to move really
really fast so um I will definitely isue
some of the traditional scientific um
rigors to move fast to get an answer to
test it in real time be moving go go go
um you know look momentum matters I
can't say that enough and that's
something in science they don't prize
momentum like I do I don't think
business could survive in um in that
world if you had to be that cautious and
that slow it's like I'm just eh if you
know we're like in non-scientific
Endeavors you can be close enough right
and so like for instance if you put me
on a panel like as much as I can talk
about the brain if you put like um VSS
ramachandra on in national television
and people got to ask us questions about
the structures of the brain I would look
like an idiot right but I know enough I
know enough and I to get by exactly and
so that that to me is is um is why I
would never say that like I'm a
scientist but yeah I try to use some of
their
tactics cool all right so this is a
followup on the myth mythology question
um from Chris Welch uh how okay so you
mentioned that myths can't keep up with
Society anymore how will our mythology
adapt fast enough to keep up with modern
society I don't have the answer to that
question yet and this is something I
just started exploring today um so I'm
I'm really fascinated to go deep and to
answer this question and it's going to
be fun like to have this company that's
predicated on our ability to monetize
this meditation right like that is so
interesting to me and when I think about
you know all the young entrepreneurs out
there who you know want to put at the
center of their life something they
really really care about but they can't
think about how to actually make it a
business you know we're going to be a
case study for you and if you could
crawl inside my mind and see how I'm
approaching this problem right so we
have this very sort of soft esoteric
thing we want to impact culture we want
to do it in a positive way I'm I am
really really um unnerved I Won't Say
I'm frightened I'm unnerved by the
division that we have in American
society and for anybody that's read the
comic book DMZ um you'll know why I'm so
unnerved because I think that's such a
prophetic example of what happens if we
keep down this path um so I really
really think deeply about like how we
affect um people's ability to feel in
control of their life which is a
building block of happiness and when
everybody I think is happy and feeling
like they're in control and they're
working towards something they believe
in and all of that that that we really
can just have a better world and there
will be more people doing things that
are awesome for Humanity uh protective
of humanity uh protective of longevity
like all the things that weigh into what
we really care about as human beings um
but answering the question of how we are
going to actually pull P this off from a
mythological perspective and make that
relevant I don't know also that's a path
and not necessarily the goal I think
that using mythology is going to be the
answer but I'm not married to that path
and so we would abandon that path if it
if it proves not to work but um going
back to to Really finish the thought if
you could crawl inside my mind and see
what I'm doing I'm looking at things
from a hyper like tactical standpoint so
we've got this Grand Vision influence
culture in a positive way but at the end
of the day I have to sell right we
have to sell so at some point this
all has to translate the things you can
buy and so the meeting that I had this
morning was about making things that
people can buy and as I'm like sitting
there explaining like how we're going to
do this and how it's going to work I was
getting so amped up because I really
think it's real and so I'm pitching this
guy and I can see he's like holy
like he's never thought of it like this
he's never thought of his own Universe
like this and so literally in the
meeting these guys haven't heard this
yet in the meeting homeboy picks up the
phone not going to give it any names
picks up the phone calls the
person that we would have to win over
was like Hey I'm sitting across from
this guy he's like totally freaking me
out like you've got to hear his vision
like let me get a meeting I want to get
you and I want to get him in front of
because I said the same thing to him get
me in the room dude get me in the room
right and so boom right there he's like
he got half the answer that we need I
was like oh my God like this is
nuts so yeah it's um we may Hate by the
way the answer that they gave us but we
got an answer I was over the moon um
everything you know there's always hair
on the deal as they say say uh but if we
can structure it in a certain way oh my
God could be amazing it would give us
stuff that would be really powerful
really will let us test out whether uh
mythology is going to be a play and it
will let us sell oh God Babe Ruth
common
shots that's all I have to say that's
all I have to say right now drop all
right um so this one has disappeared off
my screen but I remember it um Tom when
are you going to have a clothing line
yeah so so that was part of what today's
meeting is about so
um soon very very soon and I think um
one of the things that I'm on repeat
about is I need I need a new technology
to exist or if it exists and they just
don't know how to Market it yet we need
Ultra highquality direct to garment
printing I can't stress that enough I
know there is some just techsavvy
wonderkind out there um man I want to
help in any way that I can make this
happen if we can make this happen I'm
telling you it's a billion dollar
business uh but it's got to be ultra
high quality it cannot be better than
what we've seen it has to be ultra high
quality this is a zero to one moment So
for anybody that knows directed garment
printing you're going to say what what
are you talking about there's so many
directed garment printers that's how
confident I am that what needs to come
into existence is so is exponentially
better than what exists right now that
it would be a zero to one moment it's a
Quest Bar moment right Quest Bars came
in there were, 1600 other protein bars
but it was still a zero to one moment we
need that direct to garment I know
someone is working on this because the
demand is just so so there um and I'm
not willing to invest the time in
learning the technology I just think
that that would be stupid um so I know
someone out there is working on it I
know one of you knows one of those some
ones and if you guys could put them in
touch I will buy them or invest in them
or at a minimum Mentor them to make sure
that that technology exists because it
would scratch my own itch I need this to
exist um because the only thing you'll
see I've totally switched up my style in
the last 2 years and I've moved almost
exclusively to uh what I call Rep what
you believe um so you're going to see me
at all times wearing something that says
something about my internal life um so
I'm wearing one you guys have seen way
too many times but this is very
important in the meeting that I just
came from so as a subliminal cue I
needed to be wearing this um if if I
hadn't literally returned run up and and
sat down I would have changed it so it's
not such a recycle on you guys um but
yeah giving people a chance to reinforce
in their mind that is the key
repetition repetition repetition you've
got to reinforce the stuff in your own
mind which is why that's why I'm so
hellbent to even though what we're about
is creating this empowering mythology I
really believe like I'm also wearing a
necklace that is the Rebel Alliance from
Star Wars because it reminds me of all
the um you know the mythology and
iconography from that film which is
really really important and when Joseph
Campbell was asked are there any modern
myths that could actually help people in
today's society his answer was Star Wars
so like this stuff is real I really
believe that it can play um and people
need something that's wearable that's
tangible that they can take out of The
Ether and make a part of their life um
and that's what we're going to be
delivering um the easiest way it's not
the only way but the easiest way to pull
that off would be ultra high quality
director garment printing
so all right okay any IG questions
Alfredo from Ecuador says Tom do you use
anything like a reminder when you feel
unmotivated or weak about achieving your
goals um so the one thing I never feel
is unmotivated that's not helpful so
what would the I have I have made it a
part of my identity that I am
motivated but I often get super um
fearful God I didn't want to say that
but that actually is true I get fear
that I'm not going to be able to pull it
off so in those moments I I always fall
back on two things beauty and rage uh
and what I mean by that is I really
really believe that there is a kid out
there right now or an adult a
75-year-old whatever there's somebody
out there right now who if I can get
through to them with the idea that they
can acquire skills that they can set
their mind to something and accomplish
it that they can do whatever it is that
they want to do through really really
hard work and discipline like really
simple not easy but very simple things
that is so beautiful to me because it
will make their life better like that is
I just I love that the world works that
way and every time I see evidence of the
fact that the world works like that like
it fills me with beauty I I don't know
how to explain it it's it's beautiful
and I want to bring that to the world
and I want that to be not that I think a
lot about Legacy but that's that's a
good word to sum up like I want that to
be what I'm about and so that's
beautiful to me and then on the other
hand there are all these people who
doubt me there are all these people who
have they have chosen the dark side and
they have chosen uh to to fill
themselves with hate contempt disregard
doubt like all these negative emotions
and people that um try to chip away at
other people like I was interviewing Mel
Robbins and Mel Robbins is so inspiring
man and if you let her Inspire like
she's really working to try to help
people and she's like I'm on CNN so
people make fun of my neck cuz she has
like a in her neck the like there
are actually people out there who waste
time like trying to to make her feel bad
to get attention like that's so insane
to me so I feel myself and obviously I'm
thinking of the people who've touched my
own life that have you know doubted me
hated on me tried to stop me hurt me
people that have sued me like like
that right and I I F myself with rage
and I let that anger like be a push pull
mechanism so on the one hand I move
moving towards Beauty and on the other
hand I am hellbent to prove something
I've got a chip on my shoulder it's that
simple and you know I'm I'm a big
believer in that and I know it's a
little bit controversial but the truth
is once you understand how to leverage
that without it consuming you without it
um you know becoming uh letting it turn
you into Lord Vader it actually is
useful and it's something that not a lot
of people talk about and uh so on those
days when I'm feeling tired or fearful
um anger actually helps and they've done
they've done studies on this if I want
to um make you hold your hand in let's
say they usually use cold water um if I
want you to to endure that pain longer
than other people all I have to do is
let you get angry so let you swear let
you yell um and in channeling that rage
people can endure more pain like
think about that and that's why I think
it's totally
underutilized it's cool all right so
this one comes from
mil Jo sorry about that so miljo
miljo
mil Milo perhaps mil all right so hey
Tom how do you get over Road box without
losing
momentum that's the fun of it man and
when you fall in love with that process
of going okay I actually don't see the
way around this problem um what what I
have trained myself to do is there's a
moment of either anxiety frustration
anger whatever when you have that moment
let that be the trigger if you guys have
read near book near a all's book hooked
talks about a a habit Loop trigger and I
use that as the trigger to remind myself
that any obstacle can be overcome uh and
then that puts me into this like back
into my prefrontal cortex and I start
trying to problem solve and a lot of
times I'm using think itation to come up
with a very creative solution to that so
put myself through meditation into an
alpha wave state which is where your
brain is making unique connections from
very disparate parts of your brain I
stay in that meditative State and I go
into what I call think itation where I'm
actively thinking about a problem so
meditation is normally about turning off
the thinking part of your brain as much
as you can uh and that whenever you
catch yourself thinking about something
you remind yourself to breathe um so
with think itation I want to leverage
that the creative State uh but to
actually attack a problem and it's the
same sensation you get when you're
either falling asleep or just waking up
where you feel like you may just a
moment of inspiration hits and you have
an answer to uh a big problem so I'll do
that a lot and then sometimes I just
brute force it and I start making lists
of what are all the possibilities write
down things stream of Consciousness uh
without ever filtering or censoring and
you know a lot of times something will
pop up and then when all else fails I
just chip away at it over
time cool all right so this one comes
from Chris Welch um so you give a lot of
great great non-fiction book
recommendations are there any fictional
books that help you
grow I'm going to guess that there are
tens of thousands of books fictional
books that'll help you grow I'll give
you a very limited number from my stash
um it's limited because I have the
overwhelming feeling that I'm not
getting information fast enough from
fiction books even though I love them
and I love them in a way that I can't
explain I absolutely like once a year my
wife and I go away for um our
anniversary and that is the only time I
allow myself to read Fiction it's once a
year I pick a book picking that book is
like it it's I scrutinize it almost as
hard as I scrutinized my wife before I
decided to propose to her like it's a
big deal um and when one hits it's it's
unbelievable so um books that have
really had a big impact on me you have
to remember a lot of times I had an
impact because of the age CU all I used
to read was fiction so a lot of these
books from when I was younger um the
Slinger had a huge impact on me the
whole Dark Tower series in fact had a
big impact on me I'm super excited of
finally turning that into a movie um
I've talked a lot about Stephen King he
had a big impact um it had a huge impact
on me and we all float down here uh yeah
yeah God I love that um that that book
was incredible what a great Coming of
Age tale love love love um there were a
lot of Stephen King books insomnia had a
big impact on me it was the first book
that ever made me actually shed a tear
and I was like what just happened like
movies for sure but books um in fact I
think there's only two books that
actually made me shed a tear you guys
ready ready insomnia by Stephen King and
shoe dog oh by Phil Knight the story of
Nike actually made me cry the
end of I'm like a crier so I can't even
make that list the end of it right the
end yeah yeah the end was like it ruined
me I and and it was because of
everything leading up to it right like
the grind the way I don't want to give
it away it just the beginning or the
whole book leading up to it and then
that moment I was like oh wow like and
it was one of those
um where it was even in the sorrow the
it's the knowing the joy of being alive
you know like and because I think his
book was so like you're so on that
Journey with him and just really feeling
like alive and then ah wow so anyway
great book those two um and see I
brought it back to nonfiction again
there I go uh but insomnia yeah that had
a big impact I loved though I won't say
it changed me I loved more than I could
possibly tell you uh Ready Player one
ready player one that book's if you
haven't read that book like you're
missing
out some people are asking um if we're
still planning on printing the do
shirts most definitely that'll that'll
forever be our most important shirt like
that's the
the everything boiled down to its
Essence yes it's one of those simple uh
but not easy but yeah that that'll
forever be like the quintessential
impact theory Sure do 100% And then a
general question from Katherine what are
your thoughts on
time there wow that's open-ended um like
no well let me oh this is a fiction book
that you should all read this one this
had a lasting impression on me I can't
believe I didn't remember this one
called Einstein's dreams and it's a
collection of short stories that talk
about um like different aspects of time
so one of them and and this one really
really sums up how the the sort of most
common thing that I think about time
when I'm not thinking about it from a
like physics perspective but what if
everyone could live forever right so if
you if the everyone was Immortal um the
world would fall into two camps and Camp
a would never do anything because there
would always be time to do it tomorrow
and then Camp B
um would do everything because there was
there would actually be enough time to
pursue all of your passions and that
really resonated with me because that's
what I saw around me like most people
like they always seem to be putting
things off whereas I want to do them
right now like that's why I was so
excited in this meeting with the guy
twice wait till you hear that whole
story twice picked up the phone he was
like do you want me to just call him
right now I was like yes please yeah uh
so he was just literally calling them
right there in real time so awesome
awesome uh I and that brings us to the
last point I'll make about time I have
the sense um Jason Silva and I were
talking about this in our most recent
interview where he introduced me this
great quote in Spanish um in English the
translation is the day is escaping me
and that's how I feel the day is
escaping like it feels like it's just
falling through my fingers like and it's
because every moment there's so much
potential when you don't ring the
potential out of every moment it feels
like it has escaped
this is true and then we have one more
from John bigs best and worst advice
you've gotten or you've been given in
the last
year I so rapidly discard bad advice I
actually have
no memories of specific bad advice I
really want to come up with something
for
you God I I don't have any great
examples of bad advice um good ad
advice uh I'm in a position now where
I'm more collecting knowledge than
advice what's a great piece of knowledge
that I picked up
um the this type of question I'm really
bad at answering and I try not to ask
them in interviews because it sends your
mind spinning for anything like I now
I'm just trying to remember any piece of
advice that I've gotten in the last year
um guys can you help me out like what's
something that we've discovered as a
team
and now yeah now everyone's Deering
headlights on this one
uh I I I don't know I so my life boils
down to the the idioms that I'm throwing
out all the time some of them maybe did
come in the last year uh I'm not sure
every time I'm with Jason Silva I feel
like I'm getting more nuggets of gold uh
and I've written many of them down um
and of course I I'm blanking on each and
every one of them for you right now um
so yeah sorry I'm just gonna sit in the
the discomfort of this what was that
maybe that can be a blog post
later yeah about that's good I like that
I keep notes so I'll pour back through
the notes and see what I've come over in
the the last year very grateful for the
question I apologize for the horrific
answer all right and
so milco has another question and he
says um how would you define a leader
Tony Robin says leaders do two things
optimize resources and solve problems
what are your thoughts on this well they
definitely solve problems but I think um
a leader is somebody that is painting
the vision and organizing everybody and
galvanizing them around the execution of
that and um and giving them like the the
life philosophy to steal from Pete
Caroll that we're all going to abide by
and that to me is like the big thing
you've got to set the tone for the
culture um so you have to create the
culture you have to um lead by example
from a work ethic perspective so um
there's a great quote about kids um
don't worry if kids are listening
because they are always watching and
that's how I feel as a leader is people
maybe they don't seem like they're
listening to what you say but oh dear
God they are watching everything you do
and they will emulate it uh if you're
showing up late leaving early they're
going to show up late they're going to
leave early um if you hit an obstacle
and stop they will hit an obstacle won't
stop um if you never congratulate people
then they're never going to congratulate
people you know so you really have to um
lead by example but to to boil it all
down you have to have the vision and you
have to Galvanize people around um the
belief system and the execution path
that to me is is
it nice yeah and failing to make people
feel good about themselves would be a
real
mistake all right so have one more the
signal um wrap it up last one from Brian
Kim when did you realize that this is
what you wanted to do what's
this this impact Theory yeah uh so
impact Theory really began to so impact
theory is the Collision of a lot of
things um I've always known that I
wanted to be involved in myth making uh
which is I've been obsessed with film
making since I was probably 12 um so
that and then that collided with
realizing that until you um can control
your own destiny financially that you're
coming to into the world with your hand
out uh which was a discovery really
about just about 15 years ago a little
bit less probably um so putting those
two things together that's why you know
I wanted to make sure that this was a
commercial business that made money um
that could be a self-sustaining engine
um and it really began to take shape
about 10 years ago when um zuda Comics
came out and I saw what they were trying
to do which was leverage the crowd to um
trade something which is basically we
can't come up with every great idea
every business knows that um no matter
how many amazing people you have in your
company that the vast majority of the
world's smartest and most talented
people don't work for you so finding a
way to Leverage The Crowd um and what we
trade is our ability to nurture that and
market so in doing that it becomes a
pretty powerful exchange of value and um
I think because we're not predatory um
because we're not trying to milk
everything that we can out of these
creators whether they're creating a
company or content uh because we're
always very happy to give more value
than we receive I I think that will be
unprecedented um in this Arena I just
don't think people think like we think
the way this team is um the way that we
want to see other people succeed like
I'm wired for that and I really
believe that um the timing on this is so
perfect and never before in human
history has there been a moment for a
group like us to shine I truly believe
that because now people that want good
things for other people that aren't
predatory um Can Build a massive
business because the world now can talk
to each other and So within seconds um
somebody in Nairobi is going to know
whether we treated somebody well or not
and um that and like today you know
showing up and and um and being myself
and painting a vision that I think is
unlike a vision anybody else's painting
I you know was able to have an impact on
this guy and and get him to make phone
calls right there in the room literally
just to be helpful um or yesterday when
why cleff John was here and and pulled
us aside at the end think think about
how many times wff has been interviewed
right how many times um but pulled us
aside on the way out and uh you know was
calling his family which um of course is
something that he uses a lot but
nonetheless was awesome but when they
said you know this is the best interview
we've ever done um and invited me to
join him in New York and um just you
know was so so kind to everybody here
because he felt so welcomed and so so um
respected and loved and it was just
awesome man it was awesome to to see him
walk in you know to sort of another
interview but then walk out like whoa
this is different and you know that's
that's our motto here get him in the
room get him in the room and um and
we're at our best and we're High touch
and so um I love that I think it's a I
think it's a unique time and with that
we will bid you guys ad do thank you so
much for joining us everybody you can't
imagine how much this is our favorite
part in interact directly with you guys
answer your questions talk about what
we're doing means the absolute world to
us uh we live to serve truly so if
there's anything that we can do ever to
help you guys let us know submit uh and
help us keep growing this community our
big push right now is iTunes baby iTunes
so go to iTunes subscribe that would be
very very helpful to us to climb the
ranks to get more uh visible and we
promise to leverage that to do
incredible things not only for you guys
but for the World At Large so until next
time my friends be legendary